hey everyone it's me Carolyn Scott
Hamilton and today's healthy bite is a
wellness health bite and I'm going to
talk to you about mineral oil most of
you have seen mineral oils listed as an
ingredient on all sorts of conventional
lotions and products and you probably
think that sounds all natural from the
ground well it is natural and from the
ground but it's a byproduct of gasoline
its petroleum so 100% baby oil is 100%
mineral oil and petroleum jelly does in
the name it's not only incredibly toxic
to put on our largest organ of our
bodies that is so good at absorbing
things I mean think about it people use
patches to quit smoking they use it to
administer birth control drugs so if
your skin can absorb the medicine it's
also absorbing the crap so it's not only
toxic but mineral oil the molecules are
so big that it's hard to it lays like a
thick layer on your skin and it doesn't
allow for anything else to get in so if
a lotion says oh it's got vitamin E and
an L o and blah blah blah
well that's great but if it has mineral
oil in it none of that good stuffs get
in there so I'm going to show you a
quick little demo with putting a regular
cracker into a couple of glasses one
it's filled with baby oil which is a
half percent mineral oil the other one
will be water the other one will be
coconut oil and make it a little messy
so this way over just a short period of
time you'll see how your skin can absorb
or cannot absorb certain things so we're
going to put the cracker in this coconut
oil and then we're going to put the
cracker in water and then we're going to
put this cracker in the mineral oil so
I'm going to let everything sit for a
little while we all know that crackers
get soggy you know when they get wet so
we're going to showcase how I could even
see this cracker expanding in front of
my eyes you can probably see - how bad
it's getting it's absorbing all of this
water and it's starting to
come apart and just break to show that
anything that's water-based is good
because it's going to allow for things
to get into your pores skin whereas this
mineral oil you'll see even if you leave
it in there all day it's still going to
feel crispy like a cracker because
nothing's penetrated and that's your
skin so not only is mineral oil bad for
you because it's toxic it doesn't allow
for anything else to get into your skin
it's causing it not to breathe it's
causing blockage and it's toxic so the
first thing to look for and there's so
many other things to look for on like
regular cosmetic problem products like
fragrance that's a terrible chemical if
you get rid of fragrance that knocks out
a ton of chemicals parabens there's so
many things but mineral oil is just the
first one to look out for because
anything that's touted has been good in
the product is not going to get into
your skin anyway so start to look for
mineral oil like it's the second listed
ingredient here mineral oil toss that
baby and get something that has no
mineral oil like this one's got like
avocado oil and water and that kind of
stuff so look for products that have
things you can pronounce good
ingredients that are beneficial that
aren't going to get trapped by the
mineral oil so there are many lessons to
come but this is a good quick easy one
that you can start to toss out things
that have mineral oil so as you can see
I can't even grab this cracker it just
fell apart and then the one in the sea I
wish you could feel but the one in the
coconut oil is really soft because it's
not obviously not going to break apart
like the cracker in the water but it's
nice and soft on the inside because
things are getting in but this guy in
the baby oil is still really crispy
watch it's still cracks like a crispy
crispy cracker not good folks so do
yourselves a favor and start to look for
mineral oil in your products if you like
this healthy tip make sure to subscribe
to this channel follow us at healthy
voyager on Twitter Facebook Pinterest
and also subscribe to our newsletter at
healthy voyager com see you next time
knowing is half the battle that's a
great GI Joe wins